well howdy there internet people its Bo
again so tonight we've got a teachable
moment we're gonna start off talking
about a couple of psychological effects
and then we're gonna talk about how they
came into play today I'm California okay
the first of this is the Milgram
experiments if you're not familiar with
them definitely read about them it's
very interesting to say the least the
summary is that if a dude in a lab coat
holding the clipboard tells you to do
something you're probably gonna do it
and this can be expanded to suggest that
if someone who's perceived to be in a
position of authority tells you to do
something you're probably going to do it
that can be dangerous
the other is the bystander effect the
diffusion of responsibility and the way
that works is the more people that are
around the less likely you are to
believe that something is your personal
responsibility that you personally have
to intervene in something that you have
to act because certainly somebody else
will do it the cool thing about that one
is just hearing that and understanding
that it is in effect kind of inoculates
you against it it makes it makes you
less likely to succumb to it over the
years is that study has been repeated
the percentage of people that don't act
drops because it's become kind of a
well-known fact it's becoming more and
more well-known so people are less
likely to just stand there and wait
okay so what happened out in California
Cal State Long Beach and had a lockdown
problem is there no locks a lot of the
rooms with students in them had no locks
now some of the students in some of the
classrooms they barricaded the doors
they used a computer cord to tie off the
doors they acted they did something that
were proactive good for you guys
you might feel silly now because nothing
happened but you didn't know that then
you made the right decision with the
information you had at hand in other
rooms they did not think they sat in an
unlocked room and waited
that's pretty terrifying don't do that
don't do that the purpose of a lockdown
is to get as many people as possible
somewhere secure
to maintain their safety if the lockdown
was ordered and you were in the hallway
would you stay in the hallway of course
not you would get somewhere safe
same principle needs to apply now I know
there will be objections from a very
very small minority of law enforcement
that is just used to saying something
and they're gonna say you know that
makes our job harder you just need to
comply no you don't get to tell people
to sit in a room and wait to die because
it makes your job harder it's not how
that works if you truly believe that you
need to quit you need to change
professions now the other side to this
and this is really important
this was covered nationwide
coast-to-coast if that school is not
installing locks right now and I mean
right now in the middle of the night
anything that happens at that school
should be the personal liability of
those running it it should be very
apparent now in the number one target
you were the number one target because
of the way this was covered the people
that do these sorts of things they study
others beforehand they're now going to
be looking for this if you run another
facility and you have rooms that don't
have locks on it that needs to be solved
immediately immediately and to students
please please understand a lockdown is a
guideline it is a guideline it's there
to keep you safe okay it's not there to
order you to sit in a room that's
unlocked a person and position of
authority coming over a loudspeaker and
telling you the schools on lockdown
is not a suicide pact you get somewhere
safe anyway it's just a fault y'all have
a good night